everyone's heard of the tired old adage
of paying yourself first but that's
saying
lacks a lot of useful details how do you
actually pay yourself first
so today i'll lead you through some
changes you can make to improve your
savings strategy
[Applause]
[Music]
first and foremost you should focus on
only one goal at a time
typically we think about having multiple
savings goals for multiple things
we have an emergency savings fund a
vacation fund a wedding
fund a car fund but one great study
compared people's savings progress
when they had one savings goal compared
to five savings goals
and it turns out that when participants
had just one savings goal
they saved more than when they had five
the research showed that if you make
progress in just
one of your savings accounts you think
you've made progress across all of them
like multitasking at work splitting your
attention across multiple savings goals
just isn't efficient now that's not to
say
that this will be your only savings goal
you'll have many more throughout your
life
but i want you to think about the one
thing that you want to focus on
over the next six months to a year start
with your emergency savings fund
even if it's 500 or 600 the average cost
of a car repair
and then go from there now that you have
a primary savings goal in mind let's
focus on helping you increase the amount
that you save
your main savings strategy should be to
switch from having to remember to save a
small amount
every month to saving a percentage of
your income automatically
anytime you receive income now some
people advise saving 10
15 or 20 percent of your income but
that's not important
you know your financial situation you
know how much you
can manage to save the real trick is to
find a provider that lets you set up an
automatic savings plan
and not to have to think about it ever
again this set it and forget it approach
is shown to help you save more
researchers believe
that passive systems like this are
successful because they work with our
tendency towards inertia
you don't have to manually initiate each
subsequent transfer
and you won't be tempted to hold back a
bit every time you make a savings
transfer
i want you to take the time right now to
find a provider go to your app store
download the app and set up your
automatic savings plan
if you make these two small changes
focus on just one savings goal at a time
and automate your savings you should
find success
even if you don't think you're saving
that much money and it's easier than it
may seem
so there you have it we have demystified
the old
adage of paying yourself first